so UCLA versus UC Berkeley which
university is better this is a video
that no one dares to make because it's
about to get heated
hey halfway here and if you're new my
name is half ago and I'm the host of the
campus crawl series where I take you to
the top college and university campuses
across the world I'm making this video
because the most controversial videos
has been the UCLA and UC Berkeley
episode because I called UC Berkeley the
number one public school in United
States and the comment section got
really really heated so today in this
video we must crown a winner between
these two schools so that's why I
invited students from each school all
right Thank You Haru and welcome
everyone to UCLA the number one public
university within the u.s. my name is
Jason Wu or someone you guys might know
me as Votto on YouTube what's up
everyone Thank You hoffa for having me
it's good to be here
my name is Chris my channel is my name
Christian Reza and I am a fourth year
computer science student at UC Berkeley
and we'll compare UCLA versus UC
Berkeley on different categories
starting right now
because the name of our series is called
campus crawl we're definitely gonna talk
about the campus first UCLA's campus is
a Romanesque Revival style Wow big words
but it was built around 100 years ago so
it's kind of new you see only last year
and 29 teams just celebrated their 100th
anniversary it looks really nice and the
UC Berkeley campus has bit of the
history because it was built section by
section over time so the styles vary
from building to building it looks like
someone just got a bunch of buildings
from other schools and just duct tape
them together it's not very consistent
the winner of the best university campus
definitely goes to UCLA this is the most
gorgeous campus I've ever seen honestly
it looks so good it looks so good
compared to other college campuses
the only actually is around a small in
campus and the campus is really coherent
and that means it works well together
it's no wonder that a lot of the
Hollywood movies was shot at UCLA and
they have a lot of grass areas on campus
and because the weather in LA is so nice
you just lay there and you relax
enjoying the Sun while reading your
textbooks it's a good life
so the winner for the best campus goes
to UCLA by the way if you like UCLA
campus you definitely should hit that
like button because we want to defeat
the YouTube algorithm with this video
thank you the next category is student
life I mean college is an experience
that changes you and it changes you
depending on the environment and the
people you're surrounded with that's why
student life is arguably one of the most
important categories and the winner for
the best during life goes to UCLA you
might not realize this but UCLA is
located in Los Angeles and that means
it's right next to Hollywood Hollywood
is the epicenter of entertainment so
your student life is gonna be very very
vibrant just because of their location
which we'll talk about in the next
categories I'll let Waddell tell you
about the rest so being a large public
university UCLA naturally has tons of
clubs and activities in which you can
join they can vary by topics so you may
be able to join some fun clubs such as
film club and overall the average UCLA
student I believe is very studious but
at the same time one main difference
between UCLA and Berkeley is the fact
that UCLA does know how to have fun so
usually every week between Thursday and
Saturday there will always be some type
of party in which you can go to if
you're down for that and let me tell you
there are some crazy parties adding you
so the winner for the best route in life
goes to UCLA the next category is
academics we all go to school to learn
that's the main reason for University so
this is the most important category one
major difference between UCLA and UC
Berkeley is the fact that UCLA runs on
the quarter system while UC Berkeley
runs on the semester system and that
means UCLA has four quarters including
summer quarter throughout the year and
the quizzes here are very challenging
and they go by really fast well a
semester system is only two semesters so
it gives you time to fully absorb the
information and the winner of the best
academics is UC Berkeley
I'll let Chris tell you why academically
I'm a little bit biased but I think
Berkeley is best known for its stem
programs specifically computer science
different kinds of engineering I guess
we can throw in business there as well
the professors are very competent the
classes are very well designed but I
think sometimes there's a lot of really
rough grading a lot of majors are
impacted so we'll get some kinds of
grade deflation overall it's very
theoretical
so people are attacking core problems in
science politics things like that people
try to do groundbreaking stuff and it
sometimes it's intimidating but I think
it's really cool well there's something
you should know
each school specializes in different
majors for example UCLA health is one of
the best health programs in the country
so if you want to become a doctor
definitely UCLA is the best college to
go to so you can't really go wrong with
either school it just depends on the
major that you want to study but in our
case the winner for the best academic
goes to
uc-berkeley location is a next category
you're gonna be staying at your
university for the next four to maybe
six years so choosing a location that's
right for you and your personality and
your lifestyle is really important
because you don't want to be depressed
and feeling stuck in the university and
having visited both universities I think
in my opinion the best location goes to
UCLA as we briefly mentioned earlier
UCLA is located in Los Angeles and
honestly this is probably the nicest
area you can ever have a college at it's
basically the icon of u.s. lifestyle
there's a lot of a lot of things you can
do in Los Angeles you can always go to a
nearby restaurant we have a chick-fil-a
in an ounce and there's a sandwich shop
club that sells a foot or more just the
ten minute drive can get you to the
newest mall besides that because you see
only has such a large Asian population
there are plenty of boba shops nearby
too and what's really nice is that if
you're you see always student you
actually get discounts on your lift
right and if you're looking to expand
beyond your studies I think la is a
great place to do it because there's a
lot of opportunities there
so UCLA sunny all year long and you just
feel happy the winner for the best
university location goes to UCLA by the
way if you want to see some pictures of
my trip to LA and UCLA go follow me on
instagram at hafu quote it's also linked
in the description brand recognition and
you know Harvard is definitely the top
brand but these are no slackers either
so which brand is more recognizable and
which brand is more able to help you in
your job search process the winner for
the brand recognition category goes to
UC Berkeley UC Berkeley is ranked higher
than UCLA by a couple rankings like five
rankings on most college ranking lifts I
really don't like the prestige war
between colleges I don't think it
matters that much but Berkeley is the
number one public school in the world
that's been the case for a very long
time I don't care what the rankings say
right now it's a very internationally
recognized school it's mostly known for
research its impact on Silicon Valley
and some of the more controversial
things like political activism and stuff
like that but overall it's a very well
established school internationally it's
pretty well recognized in different
industries but these schools are really
neck to neck and peel winner here it's
kind of like splitting my thin asian
hair it's really hard that being said we
must pick a winner and the winner for
the best brand recognition goes to UC
Berkeley leading from brand recognition
is job prospects finding a high paying
job is probably the reason why we and
probably our parents want us to go to
college and which university helps us do
that the winner for the best job
prospect goes to UC Berkeley UC Berkeley
is kind of like Stanford how do we
talked about Stanford they're both
really close to the Silicon Valley area
and that means if you go to UC Berkeley
for any of the stem programs it's a lot
easier to get into these big tech
companies such as Google Facebook Amazon
I can only speak from my experience but
I've done a few internships at large
tech companies for software engineering
and I've met a lot of UC Berkeley
students maybe only one or two UCLA
students so it definitely helps to be
from Berkeley so what that means is
they're gonna be getting paid anywhere
from $100,000 American to $200,000
American right out of your bachelor's
degree and you can transition from there
to almost anything you want because once
you have the fang companies on your
resume
you're almost like guaranteed to be able
to work anywhere in the world so the
winner for the best job prospect goes to
UC Berkeley athletics it is something
that not all of us do first some of us
go to colleges to play college sports
so athletics is an important category
the winner goes to none doubtedly UCLA
because UCLA actually held the most
trophies in 2017 2018 and was ranked
number one in the country before
Stanford took it over
but Bruins they're no joke and the
sports culture at UCLA is so infectious
one two three four five six seven eight
you see oh hey
UCLA bike by fight anyway but the winner
for the best athletic skills to UCLA
this next category is my favorite
category and it's student traditions
it's something that we try to do a
little bit differently with campus crowd
and show you kind of like the things
that you won't see on the official
campus tours the best and the most
unique student traditions goes to UCLA
surprisingly UCLA and UC Berkeley both
have some really really strange and
weird traditions for example both of
them have a thing called undie run UC
Berkeley runs in the Moffett library
people will bring alpacas and llamas and
UCLA runs around the whole community and
has a huge party afterwards UC Berkeley
student traditions for some reason
revolves our lot around grains for
example the 4.0 Hill where you roll down
the hill you get a 4.0 the 4.0 ball
where you touch the ball and you get a
4.0 and the infamous seal where if you
step on the seal
you'll never get a 4.0 like they just
love studying over there the best
university student traditions goes to
UCLA now it is time to put an entry
this controversy UCLA versus UC Berkeley
which is a better University and which
will claim the crown as a number one
public school in the United States I
just wanna say I'm not an official
ranking so this take it for what it is
anyway before we announce the winner I
want to tell you a story
so around two months ago I got this I
got these two oceans so I got these two
backpacks
they're really nice backpacks by the way
I got these two backpacks to give away
to you guys and I haven't been able to
do so because I said I was gonna give
them away at 10,000 followers on
Instagram but I'm at 7.9 thousand right
now I really want to give this away but
Instagram algorithm has been really
changing a lot and my growth has been
slowing down so it's gonna take me
forever to give these away to you guys I
like to ask you for a small favor so if
you can follow me on instagram at half
will grow or the top link in the
description I can give this out to you I
know not all of you use Instagram but if
you do I don't really appreciate it and
you will really appreciate it because
brand new backpacks I haven't been able
to give away let's get back to it
so UCLA versus UC Berkeley and the
winner goes to UCLA we shall celebrate
the winner by song
both of these schools are really
incredible schools this video was meant
to be more of a fun comparison and
battle between the schools but no harm
to either school there are incredible
schools
I would love to study it ultimately your
college decision and where you go
depends on your major and your personal
interests because each category mainly a
little bit differently to you than other
people so that's why I suggest you to do
your own research and ultimately pick
the school that is best for you and
that's gonna make you succeed in life
because that's why we're on campus crawl
subscribe for new episodes and if you
want to find out more about UCLA or UC
Berkeley go watch Chris or UC Berkeley
to watch 104 UCLA and go watch this
video for the comparison between
Stanford University and Harvard
University because
in the world my name is half grow your
lovely friend and host of the campus Pro
Series
I'll see you in the next video